# Case for suppport


Nanostructures and nanostructured materials have been explored extensively as components of photovoltaics in an effort to improve efficiency in systems that might be processed at low cost [1]. The use of single nanowires as photovoltaic elements presents several key advantages which may be leveraged to produce high-efficiency, robust, integrated nanoscale PV power sources. First, the principle of bottom-up design allows the rational control of key nanomaterial parameters, which will determine PV performance, including chemical/dopant composition, diode junction structure, size, and morphology [2].

Whilst the Si-Ge heterostructures have been studied since the mid-70s, it is only in the last 13 years that growth of radial heterostructures (i.e. core-shell) have been possible due to advances in experimental techniques [3]. Core-shell NWs have several advantages over the other possible heterostructures: (i) better confinement of carriers due to sharp interfaces, (ii) carrier mobilities in Ge are higher than in Si. These additionally make them excellent candidate fornext generation MOSFETs [4].

Core–shell nanowires (NWs) composed of silicon (Si) and germanium (Ge) are key structures for realizing high mobility transistor channels, since the site-selective doping and band-offset in core–shell NWs separate the carrier transport region from the impurity doped region, resulting in the suppression of impurity scattering [5]. Ion implantation is a standard technique used in the industry for manufacture of doped electronics [6]. The manufacturing of ever smaller feature size semiconductor devices requires precise control of the dopant distribution following ion implantation and rapid thermal annealing. The defects and strain produced by the implantation of dopant ions can have dramatic effects on the diffusion of dopant atoms, but the mechanisms are not completely understood at present.

The ability to simulate large cells is attractive because finite size effects of this type of calculation are very important. One such example would be to consider the dissipation of energy upon impact, i.e. vibrations interacting across periodic boundary conditions. Whilst there are papers that model ion implantation, these are typically done with classical molecular dynamics [7], thus assuming the potentials are transferable to the system and telling us nothing about the electronic structure. This work will be completely novel in this respect, it will be the first large scale *ab-initio* ion implantation study. Our objective is to see how the shell thickness and NW structure change the final ion location in a complex interplay between strain, surface and interface effects.
  
## Methodology
  - O(*N*) DFT
The computational modelling will be based on linear scaling density functional theory (O(*N*) DFT), specifically, using the CONQUEST code. Linear scaling implies that the resources required to do calculations will scale linearly with system size, evidence for which will be given in the resource management section. DFT has been enormously successful in characterising materials and has already been used successfully to model Si/Ge NWs electronic structure. Our code uses many different basis set types, however for this project we will use pseudo atomic orbitals derived from pseudopotentials (here PBE functionals). The success of DFT, and the experience of the PI, will form the platform for the project. The PI has extensive experience with DFT modelling with CONQUEST, since he is the lead developer, though other codes such as VASP and QuantumEspresso will be used as a benchmark tool for testing purposes.
  - XL-BOMD ( cite papers Niklasson and Arita )
Molecular dynamics routines are often prone to energy-drift over extended periods of time due to the lack of time reversibily. This problem was initially addressed by Niklasson *et al*. However, because of time reversibility the propagation of the electronic degrees of freedom is also lossless. Small numerical errors or inaccurate initial boundary conditions will never disappear but propagate throughout the simulation. Exact time reversibility is therefore a potential problem for long-time simulations under “noisy” conditions since numerical errors can accumulate to large fluctuations. Exact time reversibility in the propagation of the electronic degrees of freedom may then lead to a substantial loss of accuracy, and in the worst case, to divergence. Using a revised scheme of extented Lagrange Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics, through the introduction of an external dissipative force term acting on the electronic degrees of freedom, error accumilation has been removed.
  - PAOs (and testing L-range? Not sure if this should go here or the later section "Basic plan")
In order to ensure rapid calculations we have chosen to use pseudo-atomic orbitals (PAOs) as our basis set. These are numerically tabulated radial solutions to the Schrodinger equation using pseudopotentials, where each angular momentum channel is given *n* functions, where *n* = 1,2,3... and refers to the size of the basis set, i.e. single zeta = 1 etc. To use these functions, and indeed to find the solutions to the Schrodinger equation, we multiply these by the appropriate spherical harmonic. Each of these radial functions needs to be hand tuned to ensure we get accurate forces and band eigenvalues. To do this we usually benchmark against VASP for using approriate test systems, e.g. bulk/surfaces of Si/Ge and doped bulk/surfaces of Si/Ge. During this benchmarking process we converge the L-matrix range which converges the total energy in a similar fashion to the way the plane-wave cutoff converges a VASP calculation. At this point in time we already have a good set of PAOs for the system for single zeta polarisation up to tripple zeta triple polarisation, although we will need to test these for suitability in the proposed calculations. 
  
## Basic plan
( This is in part covered by Dave's notes RE the timeline )
  - What will we do? 
  - How will we do it? 
  - Contingency plans
In this seciton we will attempt to describe how we will execute this project, breaking down the steps needed to ultimately deliver a high quality, high impact research project. The calculations will be performed on a single Ge core size and three Si shell sizes, which we know to be the most stable given the surface morphology of our NW system from a paper which is currently being prepared for publication. We will then dope these structures with B, using ion implantation and molecular dynamics, bombarding both the (100) and (111) facets. Since the entire project is high risk a large amount of time will be devoted to testing and optimising parameters used in the final large calculations. 

- First we need to determine the optimal PAO radii, XL-BOMD damping and L-range. We will do this by conducting small scale runs with our smallest diameter nanowire. 
- We now need to determine how long equilibration will take by using a full scale undoped nanowire. 
- Run calculations of B susbtitutions and interstitials in NWs using MD. This will help determine what will happen post impact, i.e. will B preferentially sit at an interstitial site or displace Si/Ge. 
- Determine velocities for production runs by using a range of test velocities on smallest production size NWs, with angle of incidence perpendicular to the (100) surface. The requisite for the velocity is that it penetrate the surface, but remain in the Si shell. This step is where we will determine whether to preform calculations on the thicker core width, since this is the first production size run it has the risk of needing much more computational time to determine the initial velocity of ions, it could take 5-10 production size runs, although a good set of estimates could be obtained from previous experimental and calculated values of similar systems. 
- From the previous results we will do this for 2 test velocities, one that just breaks the surface and one that penetrates slightly more on the (111) facet, since this is the softer crystallographic direction. The data from these will determine the velocities for the production runs and forms the smallest production run. 
- Move on to production for full scale NWs, with core width of 6 atomic layers, and three shell "radii" of 3, 5 and 7 atomic layers. In the spirit of completeness we will perform calculations on planar interfaces with the same dimensions to decipher what effects the edges and multi-facet interfaces have on final structures. 
- Once we have a complete set of production runs we will perform post-implantation anneals. This is insipred by experiment since real devices are annealed to "activate' the dopants.
  
## Why do we need to use ARCHER?

Given the approximate sizes of the jobs highlighted in the technical assessment (~16,000 cores or ~10% of total cores), ARCHER really is the only machine large enough to perform these sorts of calculations within the UK. In addition to this, the environment, libraries etc, provided on ARCHER will allow us to tune and run CONQUEST to its fullest potential. Since the proposed calculations will be amoung the largest ever done, certainly for *ab-initio* molecular dynamics, the high speed interconnects on ARCHER are a requisite to achieve the scaling required for such massive calculations.

[1] M. Law *et al*. Nature Materials **4**, 455-459 (2005)
[2] B. Tian , T. J. Kempa and C. M. Lieber. Chem. Soc. Rev. **38**, 16-24 (2009)
[3]  L. J. Lauhon; M. S. Gudiksen; D. Wang; C. M. Lieber. Nature **420**, 57 (2002)
[4] Y. Cui and C. M. Lieber. Science **291**, no. 5505 pp. 851-853 (2001)
[5] N. Fukata *et al*. ACS Nano **6**, no. 10, pp 8887–8895 (2012)
[6] J. F. Ziegler. Handbook of Ion Implantation Technology, (North-Holland, Amsterdam, (1992)
[7] T. Diaz de la Rubia and G. H. Gilmer. Phys. Rev. Lett. **74**, 2507 (1995).
[8] A. S. Torralba et al. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter **20**, 294206 (2008)
