# Pathway to Impact

This research is fundamental science, though we expect it to have significant impact in at least two areas of industry, as well as in other academic disciplines. The main outcomes of our research will be the ability to model ion implatation with first principles accuracy, and applications of this to semiconductor and photovoltaic devices. We will naturally use the usual academic routes to disseminate the results of our research, including publications in leading journals and speaking at conferences and workshops. We will also use the CONQUEST website (http://www.order-n.org/) to present results and advances in a timely fashion.

The key pathway to disseminating research output to the wider community will be the Thomas Young Centre (TYC, http://www.thomasyoungcentre.org). Since its inception, the Centre has organised seminars, soirees, informal talks, training and international workshops which have provided a nucleus around which working relationships have developed. The extensive events programme, of over 50 events in 2014 alone, forms an important bridge to a wider industrial user group, including organisations such as BP and Rio Tinto, as well as the related academic community. The TYC therefore provides a natural pathway to broad impact through the following mechanisms:

- Julian Walsh, the TYC’s Director of External Relations, will act as enabler for industrial outreach and will play a significant role in organising TYC meetings over the grant period dedicated to industrial awareness of our research in this area.
- Weekly emails to the TYC community – 87 research groups and around 470 members in total (230 at UCL; 45 at KCL; 15 at NPL; 174 at Imperial and 10 at QMUL).
- Dissemination on the TYC website (http://www.thomasyoungcentre.org) – over 18,000 unique visitors and 28,000 visits p.a. For example, People pages, News, Science Highlights, etc.
- Dissemination through social media channels, e.g. Twitter. We currently have around 400 Twitter followers from within the scientific community, industry and media.
- Around 150 papers by TYC members published in high impact journals over the past four years.
- Promotion of TYC research through a range of printed marketing materials distributed to the international scientific community.
- Clear understanding of the protection and exploitation of intellectual property.
- The TYC administrator Joanna Rooke will assist in enabling impact activities.

While the TYC is London-based, it has national and international reach. We will use other networks to disseminate our results, including CCP9, which has national reach, and PsiK, which is mainly European but has a growing international presence. In addition the LCN has a dedicated Business Director, Dr Tania Saxl, who will be able to offer advice on liaison with commercial partners and on exploitation of intellectual property generated by the project.

## Experimental Research
There are many areas where understanding the effect of localised charges in dielectrics is of central importance, and we have chosen two of these areas for our applications. Our work on these problems will have a direct impact on research in these areas, including STM of semiconductor surfaces and catalysis. We have proven track records in working closely with experimental groups in these areas, both in UCL and abroad. These links will ensure that we are able to disseminate the results of our research across disciplines and into experimental groups, promoting knowledge transfer.

## Industrial Research
There are two immediate industrial areas where this research will have impact. First, catalysis is central to much industrial research in chemistry, and understanding the role of charges in oxide catalysts could suggest new mechanisms and new catalysts for industrial development. Second, semiconductor devices are now approaching the regime where the position of individual dopant atoms within the channel of field-effect transistors (FETs) will potentially have effects on the performance of the device. In the longer term, these same problems are central to the development of a successful solid-state quantum information processing implementation.

We will establish links with these industrial applications, and explore the possibility of establishing collaborative research projects, by running two training days, one for each area, through the Thomas Young Centre. The TYC is a supportive community for research students and academics, a source of new collaborations for visiting national and international scientists, and a long-term partner for industry. The TYC recently ran a very successful training event for BP in materials modelling, and we will build on the success of this event. To assist in setting up and running these events, we are asking for £6,000 to assist with the costs.

## Materials Modelling
The developments in our work will enhance the ability to model charges in realistic nanostructures. We will make the code freely available as part of the C ONQUEST package, with supporting documentation and expertise all available on-line, as a community knowledge base. The ability to produce STM images for large dielectric samples will be of great help in many surface-related disciplines, and we expect this ability alone to attract large amounts of interest. To ensure that this new modelling capability is widely disseminated, we will organise a workshop through the TYC and CECAM, to train Ph.D. students and PDRAs who want to learn to use the code. We anticipate this event will be supported by CECAM, and we are not requesting any funds for it. 
